---
layout: single
title: vbox 5 and ubuntu 16.04 (xenial)
date: 2019-04-13
tag: vbox ubuntu home
category: ubuntu 
---
Upon doing some home maintenance to my farm of servers manage by vbox, I stumble upon several problems.
#1 Using 16.04 + Vbox 5.* + dkms not compatible with kernel .143

All the details of the bug can found in the link: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virtualbox/+bug/1818049

You can see the post done by *Riccardo* in *Jan 4 '18* here:
https://askubuntu.com/questions/992342/installing-guest-additions-ubuntu-16-04-kernel-configuration-is-invalid


the short of it to find if you hit this problem is to use `uname -a`, If you are in a kernel later than 4.4.0-143 and using vbox 5.* you will most likely hit the problem.

I tried updating to the test version of 6.0 but I didn't go through all the vboxsrv configuration yet.. because i was running out of time before the kids come back.

 
#2 Vbox 6.* GUI doesn't read my vbox 5.* grouping of the VMs
I had organize all my VMs in groups, and when I open vbox 6.* it doesn't drill down to my folder and thus I can't see my VMs.


I tried to open a bug against this.. but I then ran into problem 3

#3 VBox bugtracker requires an Oracle ID
Upon trying to create an account with Oracle I found difficulties. I create my account, after verifying my email TWO times (go ahead try to open an account) and then after all the verfication. I was still unable to open the bugtracker, because what I can only assume that the account has not been replicated in all the systems.

I did added a comment on a post that I found in the hope that others can help themself: https://askubuntu.com/questions/1126591/virtualbox-error-after-last-ubuntu-software-update/1126968#1126968

Okay.. weekend fun out the window.. Kids wil be back in no time.
